# Capstone

This is a Git REPO with all Capstone Project materials.

# Project background
In patients undergoing colorectal resections for inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s Disease & Ulcerative Colitis), what are features that predict readmission to the hospital? Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), are chronic autoinflammatory intestinal conditions associated with extraintestinal manifestations. Prevalence of the IBD is 0.5% in industrialized countries and reported incidence is around 20/100,000 per persons. Initial treatment of IBD is mostly medical, and there has been great improvements in medical treatment in recent years with the development of immunomodulatory and biologic agents. Despite recent advances in medical treatment, 20% of UC and 80% of CD patients still require surgery during their lifetime and the long-term surgery risk has been stable over the years. Standard treatment of choice in patients with UC is restorative proctocolectomy and surgical treatment in CD aims to remove solely the diseased bowel segment. Readmissions after IBD surgery are associated with higher costs in healthcare. Small bowel obstruction, postoperative infections, dehydration related acute kidney injury, wound dehiscence, stoma problems, and gastrointestinal bleeding are among the most common factors requiring readmissions. Previous studies have shown that up to 50% of the readmission are preventable. It is therefore utmost important to delineate the predictors of readmissions after IBD surgery. American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) database includes preoperative and 30-day postoperative surgical information from over 700 participating hospitals mostly from the US. 

# Main Question
In patients undergoing colorectal resections for inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn’s Disease & Ulcerative Colitis), what are features that predict readmission to the hospital?
